Source: https://fdisk.space/peanutsaucetofu/ (seems to be down at the moment, but is available on the web archive)

-----

This is technically a "Buddha bowl", where you would put whatever veggies you like, but for me the combo baked baked tofu covered in sauce + roasted broccoli served over rice is where it's at. The sauce is the main event here, it is both sweet and spicy and mixes with the flavors very well. It might not be the healthiest of meals, but man it is a treat!

Makes two large portions (main meal) or 4 smaller (lunch).


Ingredients

Bowl:
    2 cups cooked rice of your choice
    16oz pack of extra firm tofu
    a large head of broccoli
    2 teaspoon olive oil
    salt/pepper

Sauce:
    2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil
    1/4 cup soy sauce
    1/4 cup maple syrup
    3 teaspoons chili garlic sauce
    1/4 cup smooth peanut butter
    

Instructions

1. Press the tofu in a tofu press to remove excess liquid. You might want to press it around an hour before you start the cooking proper.
2. Preheat the oven to 400F/200c.
3. Toss the broccoli with 1 teaspoon olive oil and a pinch of salt and pepper. Place in the oven and roast for 20 minutes until just tender.
4. Cut the tofu into bite sized cubes and bake it. I use an air fryer for this step (it is faster and tofu stays more "juicy"), but you can just place it in the oven with the broccoli (although use a separate tray) for around 25 minutes. Make sure to check on it when you are taking out the broccoli, you don't want it too dry, just nicely browned and tender. Once done, move it to a bowl.
5. Whisk together the ingredients for the sauce (sesame oil, soy sauce, maple syrup, chili garlic sauce, peanut butter) in a bowl until smooth. 
6. Add 1/2 of the sauce to the tofu bowl and let marinate while you prepare the rest of the ingredients. Keep the other half for drizzle.
7. Heat one tablespoon of olive oil in a pan over medium heat. Add the tofu and the sauce until crispy and golden browned, about 3-4 minutes.
8. To assemble, put rice in a bowl, top with broccoli and then tofu. Drizzle with the remaining sauce.
9. Enjoy!

While I think the recipe works best with plenty of broccoli, not everyone is so broccoli obsessed as me and my wife. Adding coarsely diced onion and carrots in place of some broccoli before roasting could be a good idea. Also, try sprinkling some pan roasted chickpeas for added crunch!
